Hello and welcome in this lecture we are going to be cleaning up our clients take function you remember
or if you look at your screens now you probably see that it's very long and unwieldy.
And we're going to be splitting it out in two for very simple functions creates blind interpolate location
interpolate velocity and interpolate rotation.
We're going to do this by extracting out and creating a new struct to encapsulate that notion of the
her might cube explain.
So let's dive in and see how that's done.
Now just a heads up this is a refactored video and I know refactored ideas aren't to everybody's taste.
So if you aren't interested in refactoring your code right now and you could go ahead and skip over
this video entirely We're not making any functional changes we're just doing a refactor Or you could
look at the project code changes and implement them yourself or just try and tidy up your code for yourself
it doesn't matter if your code state isn't exactly the same as mine for these lectures.
But if you do want to follow along then let's get started.
So first off let's assess the existing code and figure out what the problem is going to go to the replicator
docs s.p. and it should become fairly apparent what the problem is as we start scrolling down and we
reach our climatic function which is rather large and rather unwieldly and not particularly nice to
read doesn't really tell us what it's doing here.
The other stuff is kind of okay.
Autonomous proxy on rep server state.
Well that could get a little bit better.
Maybe the assimilative proxies just about okay and the rest of these methods are all okay so I'm fairly
happy with it all.
Apart from this client tic.
So let's have a look at what's going on in client Tich we've got some staff here that is pulling together
our target location Lerp ratio target start location Saari the velocity derivative.
Coefficient the start derivative of the target derivative and we can see these variables are all being
used in these kubik interp in the kubik interp derivative.
So in some senses these variables are her might curve that we are building up and then were using this
cubic interp to do the her might curve calculation to get the new location and to get the new derivative.
So we're getting a new derivative interpolating location we are interpolating the velocity and then
down here we are interpolating the rotation so we have got basically as far as I can see 4 pieces of
functionality.
We're building up a curve from our current state.
We are interpolating location interpolating velocity and then interpolating rotation.
That's what I'd like it to read like.
I'd like our client Tich to say you know build a curve do this do this do it.
So one problem that we have here is if I started pulling out functions you would notice that if I tried
to build a curve I would have at least three or four out parameters from that function because the output
from building a curve is three or four different things.
Now typically the way we solve this is by using a struct in C plus plus and that's what we're going
to do now before we've used you struck.
And the reason we've used two strikes is that they serialise properly that means we can pass them around
over the network.
But in this case where we're just trying to tidy something up and will only use that struct.
Here in this C++ then we don't actually need to make it a U straight at all.
We can use a very simple C++ struct So that's going to be fairly nice and easy if we do that let's go
ahead and build up that plane C++ struct.
Going to do it in the head of file and you'll see why in a second.
Basically because our other methods are going to be returning this struct type and we can't just forward
declare it.
If we are returning the struct the C++ needs to know the size of that struct So we are going to have
to declare it here.
That's boring and do do it in the replicator.
H and just after our go kart state.
I'm going to create a new struct which I am going to prefix with the F.
Just keep consistent with the other structure even though it's not a struct and I'm going to call it
f her might Kub explain.
Then we can go with our curly braces and I am going to copy the names of our variables start location
start derivative target location target derivative over in two at her might keep exploring.
Like so these are all f vectors so let me just prefix more with F vector and that should pretty much
do the trick.
You see I can actually declare them all on one line.
Their start location studder of the time allocation target revmata because they're all factors and that
pretty much defines her might keep exline but for niceness we can or not for a nicety.
We might say we are going to go ahead and implement a get location and get rotation or.
Maybe I'll call it interpolate location interpolate.
Velocity.
That's what I mean.
Interpolate derivative No.
Get it in the end.
So f vector is going to be the return type because we're getting back a location that the function is
going to be in ter plate location like so and it's going to take that Lerp ratio so float Lerp ratio.
Like so and then we are going to go for interpolate derivative as well.
So interpolate.
To remove two of.
So and that's going to take the Lerp ratio as well.
So now you can see we're not going to have to pass in every time the start location start derivative
target location target derivative.
So one going to do is going to take this cubic interp that we've got here this long thing called the
cube interp and I'm going to cut it and I'm actually going to just in line declare this function because
it's going to be really small.
It's just going to be a return.
This cubic interp we have the start derivatives all these derivatives already defined and will just
put a semicolon on the end that's going to be that simple.
Then we can do the same thing with our kubik derivative.
I'm just going to cut it and paste it in line into interpolate derivative member function of the struct.
Remember the structures are exactly like classes except that they default to being public.
So basically we can use them exact same way do all inline functions we can do everything that we can
do with a class.
Reason I'm using a struct is because we want to be able to create it and set these start locations start
derivatives etc. directly.
So we've got ourselves this f her might cubics line and that's what I'm actually going to want to create
here in this first section of the client Tich So it's going to create myself an F cubics f her might
cubics mine and I'm just going to call it the slime like so.
And then instead of creating these local variables for target location what I'm going to do is I'm going
to have just slyme dot target location equals I'm going to have blind dot start location blind dot start
derivative.
Blind dot.
Target's derivative as well.
So we've set up asplin here in this first section of the code in the next section we want to get the
new location what we've got to do is we've got to go ahead and get these plein dot interpolate location.
And now we have to give it.
He is the Lerp ratios.
You can see how this is going to be much easier to split out into functions because now the only thing
that passes between these two is the Lerp ratio and the spleen.
So I'm going to go ahead and do a very similar thing with the new derivative.
I'm going to you a blind dot interpolate derivative with again the same Lerp ratio.
MIKE So okay.
And now we are ready to actually start pulling this apart in two separate blocks that I talked about
earlier and that's what I am going to give to you as a challenge.
So here's the challenge definition slide though it's quite rote at this point.
Pull out some methods pull out the create saline methods and interpolate location method to velocity
and interpolate rotation.
It's a bit formulaic if you want to do it differently.
You can do things differently this just a starting point in case you aren't sure.
So pause there and go okay.
Welcome back.
So let's go ahead and see if we can do this.
I always would prefer to be able to do this sort of stuff with a extract tool.
So I'm going to do a controlled dot and then hopefully try to do an extract function never seems to
want to work with me.
I was going to try it one more time not selecting the initial Splice.
There was do control dot extract function.
Now the reason seems to be that the Lerp ratio is declared in selected region.
We don't actually want the Lerp ratio to be here.
We want to be kind of before creating the splice.
It's not really part of creating this mine at all.
Only part of interpolating the line and we need it in all three functions anyway.
So let's go ahead and try that one more time and extract a function.
Again here we have a velocity that we don't want to extract.
It's really interesting how using these extract tools kind of keeps you honest to what you are passing
in out say I'm going to bring the velocity to derivative out as well.
We're going to then try and extract this way.
In fact let me try and include the and see if a complaint about that.
Yep blind declared so let's keep spline out of this.
Just giving this a go.
Sometimes it can be helpful obviously you can always do this the manual way as well.
This time it seems happy.
It's unfortunately choosing to use blinds and our parameter though and I really don't want to do that
so let's go ahead and do this manually after having tried to use the refactored tool.
I'm not happy with it so let's go ahead and create our function.
Now I've copied the name the f her mike Kubes blind because underneath a slight tick I'm going to create
a create spline function so create spline.
It's going to be the name of the function.
It doesn't take anything but it does return the supply in that has just been created and that is why
we needed to define has dropped in the head before going to go and implement this down in the copy.
So make a copy go down just below tick and go ahead and implement our function.
Doing the various things that you're very familiar with in C++ by now and we can go and grab asplin
Creation code.
Stick it in the creates blind fact and go only to copy this declaration of the spline in here copy it
rather than move it because we still need discipline in the outer scope as well.
And at the end we just return the said supplies.
So that has gone ahead and created the spline.
You'll notice it's not happy about the velocity too derivative and this is used in multiple places.
Now we might as well turn velocity to derivative into a function which I'm going to do.
Go to my head of file velocity each derivative.
It returns a float like so and I'm going to go ahead.
And create that function the C plus plus file.
In fact it almost doesn't need to be in the C++ file but for just consistency I'm going to keep it here.
And where's but lost its riveting.
It's just this client time between last update.
Multiply by 100.
So I'm going to return that.
So Bill hostage derivative and I'm going to add the.
Function Kelong the class colon code in front of it.
And that means that now instead of using a constant I can use this function velocity to derivative in
my creative blind class so it's removed a bit of duplication there and I can remove it from the client
tick.
And I can remove the splicing code from client tick and now I spline is just equal to create supply
so that simplified that hunk of code down and self documented it as well which is what we like.
Now the next hunk of code is the interpolate location.
Now maybe we'll have a bit more luck here with extracting the function that year.
This seems a bit better.
It's taking a reference to the blind and the Lerp ratio.
Now I'd like that to be a constant reference and will have a go at that in a second.
So interpolate supplying is what I'm going for.
And I'm going to hit.
Okay.
Okay that seems to have been created.
Let's just check where it is in the head of file.
Yeah it seems to be in the private section just above create supply and I'm actually going to just put
it underneath create sublime but it's not too big a deal.
And I'll do the same thing with the implementation in the C plus plus bodies put underneath creates
blind not big deal that it's put it in a different location.
Hey I want to be a bit for nicotine now.
I said I want this to be a contest and we can have a go at that in a second.
See if it actually compiles at the moment it probably should compile because we've just extracted some
functions and I don't see why that wouldn't work.
Okay so looks like we have one error which is a place where we haven't replaced velocity to derivative
with its function just yet.
Let's see if there are any other such cases I don't think so.
I think that was the last such case so let's go ahead and build again.
Yeah sure enough that build.
So what happens if we try and make this reference to the spline constant.
We should be able to do that because we're not actually going to edit the supplying whether interpolating
over the spleen.
So a constant reference is probably what we want.
Let's go build that and see what it complains about.
Okay so let's take a look at the output log and find the error.
So here it's saying it's hard to read but it's saying that the interpolates BY-LINE overload member
function not found.
Okay.
So that's just going on about the fact that we've got konitz in the header and not in the C plus plus.
But that is not the error I was looking for.
If we go ahead and build it again with that concert in both places we should find the error I'm looking
for and sure enough we've got the air I'm looking for it's a little bit hard to interpret interpretated
interpret interpret So it says cannot convert this pointer from konst her my spleen to her might's billion
reference.
Basically what it's saying is that the function we are calling hasn't been marked can't so particularly
it's moaning about this one.
The interpolate location and it thinks because interpolate location has been marked as a konst function
that interpolate location might be changing the spline.
So we can't use a concert reference to the blind.
Well it's wrong.
Interpolate location isn't changing the blinds so we need to market as such so that it knows this.
So let's go up to our f her Mike you've expiring and all we've got to do is to interpolate location
we need to put contest which is going to verify to the compiler that these two both the location and
the revathi of aren't modifying that structure at all.
So now if we build it should be perfectly fine with us using a constant reference to that struct Okay
so that has indeed worked.
Now so just a bit more extracting to go we've just got this velocity that we're going to interpolate.
So let's go ahead and stracke extract that so I'm going to call it interpolate.
Velocity just like so I'm going to have to change up the signature a little bit but we can tweak that
after it's done it's extracting process.
Which it has done.
Let's make that a concert instead of just the how you explain reference and I'll make it konst here
even at that C++ as well wherever it's gone or rather I need to close this and do the same thing in
the head a file where we've just created the interpolates velocity.
It's me that counts.
Actually just notice that I called this interpolates blynn Rather interpolate location.
The other interplay function.
So I'm going to change the signature hopefully maybe I can do it a rename.
Not easily.
So I'm just going to change it with the can troll find to interpolates blind is going to be interpolate
location instead.
And I'm going to replace it here and I'm going to replace it in the C++ as well.
If I can say I'm looking for interpolates plein.
And I'll get a replacement appliqued location in all the locations change in two places which is what
I expected.
So it's starting to read better with creating a spiner interpolating location and interpolating the
velocity.
And now finally when you want to interpolate the rotation as well so you can select all of this.
And I'm going to go to quick actions refactoring and extract the function and just call it interpolate.
Rotation here it's not as you can see taking in the spine because we don't use the spine for interpolating
the low rotation so I can go ahead and click okay.
And that seems to have worked.
Let's go into the head of fun.
Just make sure everything is in order.
So.
Got first of all I'd like to have create supply and then interpolate location then I'd like to have
interpolate velocity because they are linked.
And then I'd like to have the interpolate rotation and I want to mimic that order in the C++ file as
well.
Close my little preview window here and bring the velocity.
Implementation underneath.
The interpolate location.
And same with the rotation underneath that.
Just the posti.
So now we have split our functions.
They seem to be nice and small.
And describe what they do.
And we have created a struct to combine all those parameters of the spine in to one object that's easy
to pass around and easy to manage.
Let's see if that builds.
So it looks like one concert didn't get carried over from the definition in the head a file that's easy
to fix.
Let's try again.
Okay so that worked.
Let's go over into unreel and hit play with two players in a new editor window.
And I'll stick my authority on the right and the autonomous proxy on the left and I'm going to drive
my authority around in front of the autonomous proxy and hopefully we'll see him moving around using
US blinds and everything is hunky dory the rotation seems to be interpolating just fine.
Yeah seems to be definitely rotating.
Definitely interpolating smoothie using cubics So that's successful we have managed to refactor it without
actually changing the functionality.
Pats on the back all around.
Hopefully that wasn't too much refracturing for you in the next video.
We are going to be going back to functionality to make sure that we can't affect the collisions by doing
this interpellation.